Port MASTG-TEST-0053 (by @guardsquare) (#3038)
OWASP/owasp-mastg: demos/ios/MASVS-STORAGE/MASTG-DEMO-0064/MASTG-DEMO-0064.md

---
platform: ios
title: Monitor secrets in logs
code: [swift]
id: MASTG-DEMO-0064
test: MASTG-TEST-0296
---

### Sample

> The code snippet below shows sample code that logs a sensitive token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code snippet below shows sample code that logs a sensitive token:
```

{{ ../MASTG-DEMO-0024/MastgTest.swift }}

### Steps

1. Install the app on a device (@MASTG-TECH-0056)
2. Make sure you have @MASTG-TOOL-0126 installed on your machine
3. Run `run.sh` to start the log capturing
4. Click the **Start** button

> 5. Stop the script by pressing `Ctrl+C` to end the log capturing

Reviewer: review

{{ run.sh }}

### Observation

The output contains all device logs, including the logged strings from the app.

{{ output.txt }}

Observe that some of the logs were redacted with `<private>`. For example:

> ```text
> Sep 22 11:20:31 MASTestApp[32240] <Error>: logger.warning (privacy: .private): Leaking <private>
> Sep 22 11:20:31 MASTestApp[32240] <Error>: logger.warning (privacy: .sensitive): Leaking <private>
> ```
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Evaluation

> The test fails because we can see `TOKEN=123` inside the logs at:
> 
> ```text
> Sep 22 11:20:31 MASTestApp(Foundation)[32240] <Notice>: NSLog: Leaking TOKEN=123 from NSLog
> Sep 22 11:20:31 MASTestApp[32240] <Error>: logger.warning: Leaking <private>
> Sep 22 11:20:31 MASTestApp[32240] <Error>: logger.warning (privacy: .public): Leaking TOKEN=123
> Sep 22 11:20:31 MASTestApp[32240] <Error>: logger.error (privacy: .public): Leaking TOKEN=123
> Sep 22 11:20:31 MASTestApp[32240] <Fault>: logger.fault (privacy: .public): Leaking TOKEN=123
> ```

Author: ````suggestion
The test fails because we can see `TOKEN=123` in the logs:

```text
Sep 22 11:20:31 MASTestApp(Foundation)[32240] <Notice>: NSLog: Leaking TOKEN=123 from NSLog
Sep 22 11:20:31 MASTestApp[32240] <Error>: logger.warning: Leaking <private>
Sep 22 11:20:31 MASTestApp[32240] <Error>: logger.warning (privacy: .public): Leaking TOKEN=123
Sep 22 11:20:31 MASTestApp[32240] <Error>: logger.error (privacy: .public): Leaking TOKEN=123
Sep 22 11:20:31 MASTestApp[32240] <Fault>: logger.fault (privacy: .public): Leaking TOKEN=123
```

Note how some of the logs were redacted with `<private>`. For example:

```text
Sep 22 11:20:31 MASTestApp[32240] <Error>: logger.warning (privacy: .private): Leaking <private>
Sep 22 11:20:31 MASTestApp[32240] <Error>: logger.warning (privacy: .sensitive): Leaking <private>
```
````
